The data in this repository are a snapshot of the data that were used in the research reported on the paper "Mathematical Programming Formulations for the Collapsed k-Core Problem" by C. Archetti, M. Cerulli, I. Ljubic, D. Serra, C. Sorgente.

## Cite

## Description
The size of the k-core, i.e., the maximal induced subgraph of the network with minimum degree at least k, is frequently adopted as a typical metric to evaluate the cohesiveness of social communities. In this context, the Collapsed k-Core Problem consists in finding a subset of b users, namely the most critical users of the network, the removal of which results in the smallest possible k-core. 
In our work, we present different mathematical programming formulations of the Collapsed k-Core Problem. We start with a time-indexed compact formulation (named _Time-Dependent Model_) which models the cascade effect following the removal of the b nodes. Then, we propose two different bilevel programming models of the problem. In both of them, the leader aims to minimize the cardinality of the k-core obtained by removing exactly b nodes. The follower wants to detect the k-core obtained after the decision of the leader on the b nodes to eliminate, i.e., to find the maximal subgraph of the new graph where all the nodes have degree at least $k$. The two formulations differ for the way the follower's problem is modeled. In the first one (named _Sparse Model_), the lower level is an Integer Linear Programming (ILP) model. It is solved through a Beneders-like decomposition approach. In the second bilevel formulation, the lower level is modeled through Linear Programming, which we dualize in order to end up with a single-level formulation (named _Nonlinear Model_). Preprocessing procedures and valid inequalities have been further introduced to enhance the proposed formulations.In order to evaluate the proposed formulations we tested different existing instances, showing the superiority of the single-level reformulation of the second bilevel model. We further compared the approaches with the general purpose solver (named _Bilevel Solver_) proposed in Fischetti et al. "A New General-Purpose Algorithm for Mixed-Integer Bilevel Linear Programs" (Operations Research, 2017) which is outperformed by our problem-specific solution methods.

The [instances](https://github.com/MartinaCerulli/Collapsed-k-Core-Problem/tree/main/instances) folder contains the set of instances generated from several network data sets available in the literature. There is one folder for each considered instance, containing the .gml of the instance and its description together with the associated reference.
The [results](https://github.com/MartinaCerulli/Collapsed-k-Core-Problem/tree/main/results) folder contains the results of the four methods on the considered instances: _Time-Dependent Model_, _Nonlinear Model_, _Sparse Model_, _Bilevel Solver_.
